Hello this is Carol from frogs dot com and welcome to tutorial number nine in our series of em kill
for tutorials for beginners.
And today we're going to be expanding on the topic by which we talked last time which was the if statement
today we're going to introduce the else statement in front of me.
I have the code that we used in the previous Tauriel and I'm going to delete the first bit because it's
no longer relevant and I'll just leave this piece of code that we finished off with and let's compile
that.
And what as we as we can recall what it does is first it prints out the current bid price so the bid
price of the charge to which I touch the script and then it checks if this bid price is less than one
point thirty seven nine hundred.
And if that is the case then it prints out an alert saying the price is below 1.
That is one point three thousand nine hundred.
So let's give that a go see how it works.
Scripps Channel 9 there's a price 1 3 7 5 1 over there and the price is below one point thirty seven
nine hundred which is correct.
It is below this red line.
Now we we're going to go back to the code and the first thing we'll do is in order to give ourselves
a bit more control room for control we'll add another variable called Double
double level
and we'll give it the value of one point thirty seven nine hundred.
So now instead of specifying the level in our code as a number we can always change the level here and
then use this variable going forward.
So that that's that's really pretty straightforward.
Basically it's the same check but now is comparing to the variable instead of comparing to the actual
number.
But the result should be the same as long as this we use this number here in our Lord.
We're also going to replace this with a string which consists of two parts.
The price is below plus level.
And as we remember when you type unstring here to convert to explicitly convert it to strict.
All right.
So now we can compound that now works and the result should be the same the same.
The down differences that the zeros got cut off.
And that's because that is how our doubles get converted to strings explicitly there where there are
ways around that but it's not important at this stage.
So what we want to do next is we want to find out what if our strategy doesn't only do something when
the price is below this level.
But what if our strategy also does something when the price of a box when the price goes back over here
in case like say something happens and the price shifts back back to level what do we do if we want
the program to perform a certain set of actions above this level.
So let's go back to the code here if we can.
The simple answer would be to just copy this if block and basically just change this check and check
if the opposite is true.
So if bid is above level then here we would try something like above this level.
However that is not the best way to do it and kill for has a very good tool which allows you to perform
this check much much more efficiently and keep your code really well structured.
So that tool is called else what we can do is instead of performing the second check
here after the first if we can type in us.
No Brian No no.
All right.
Just of brackets and inside this else we will write the code that we want to do if the opposite is correct.
So basically what this means is that if this statement if this expression is true then this code will
be executed.
If this expression is false then this code will be executed.
So basically it's kill for is allowing you to branch out your code.
And based on this expression only perform one of the actions this one or this one it it'll be better
to illustrate if we replace this text with prices below street level and then we'll have the text saying
so
dash sell and I will say opposite So if the price is off or not below they really want to buy it just
to change it.
All right.
So let's see how that works.
Dr. Alon so you can see that that's a bit pricey over there.
One point thirty seven point five and the price is below our resistance level so that and the program
is telling us to sell or the program can be actually selling on our behalf.
But we'll learn how to do that later.
And as you can see the other part of the code this part was not executed so there is no message telling
us to buy it go back to the program.
And now what if we change this level from a from one point thirty seven nine hundred to something over
here one point thirty six nine hundred for example.
So that is it does look like a support level because the price that balance off here and then bounced
off bounced off that here as well.
So it is it does look at that level.
Let's go back to our program and change this to one point thirty six hundred compile that and see how
that works.
So in this case the price is above this level so this would be false.
This shouldn't get executed but this should get exited and we should see a message saying process above
that we should buy.
So let's go back and launched it online.
There we go so that's a big price over there and here is saying here you get a message saying that the
price is above one point three six nine and so you shouldn't buy.
So that means that prices here.
So that's basically it.
That's how our em kill for allows you to branch out your programs and perform different to different
blocks of code.
In cases where in two cases whether the condition is true or false and that is also very useful especially
on the foreign exchange market where usually either buy or sell and those are most of the time to actual
actions required opposite conditions.
Hope you found this turtle useful and the source code and more information are available on for X-posts
dot com.
And I hope you can join me for the next tutorial to them.
Including.